---
layout: post
title: This Week In Powershell
---

I know it has been a few weeks so here is some stuff I've been working on.

### Server Patching

We used to use Kace but it was never set up properly then I arrived and was told to start patching everything...so I
did. That worked for a while and then we found that the reporting was messed up and we hadn't been pushing anything for
a while. It was about this time that I knew two things. 1 As a jack of all sysadmin I just don't have tons of time to
devote to patching. 2 Kace could probably do the job and do it well except that it required someone to get it set up
properly and continued maintenance.

So we moved to PDQ Inventory and Deploy. These are 2 great products that are super easy to use. We got them set up
and started patching and deploying applications a few weeks later but in the end it always comes down to money. So
we choose to ditch Kace and patch applications and Windows with PDQ. The biggest problem is pushing out patches like
.Net or IE, things that come through Windows Update but aren't a monthly rollup. At this point, I know you're thinking
that I just need to roll WSUS and be done with it but instead I took a weird way of doing it. We'll see how it works out
but here it is...

Every Monday night we have a ps script that runs that uses PSWindowsUpdate to dump a list of updates to a log file
and a json file from each server into its own folder out on a share. Something new for me was redirecting verbose output
to the log file, take a look...

```
$Updates = Get-WindowsUpdate -MicrosoftUpdate -Verbose 4>> $Log
$Object = @()
foreach ($Update in $Updates){
    $HashProps = @{
        'ComputerName' = $Comp
        'KB' = $Update.KB
        'Title' = $Update.Title
    }
    $Object += New-Object -TypeName 'PSCustomObject' -Property $HashProps

    if ($Update.KB -like "KB*"){
        Write-Output "KB: $($Update.KB)" | Out-file $Log -Append
        Write-Output "Title: $($Update.Title)" | Out-file $Log -Append
    } else {
        Write-Output "KB: There isnt a KB number" | Out-file $Log -Append
        Write-Output "Title: $($Update.Title)" | Out-file $Log -Append
    }
}
$Object | ConvertTo-Json | Out-File $JSON
```
Then I have a ps script that collects the json files and combines them into a spreadsheet. It's pretty simple...

```
$JSONReports = Get-ChildItem -Path $Reports -Recurse -Include "*.json" -Exclude "Set*.json"

$KBs = @()
foreach ($Report in $JSONReports){
    $Data = Get-Content $Report.FullName
    $KBs += $Data | ConvertFrom-Json
    Remove-Item -Path $Report.FullName -Force
}

$KBs | Select-Object KB,ComputerName,Title | Export-Excel -Path $Excel
```
Now I have an over view of what patches are missing from my servers. Now the actual patching. PDQ Inventory has collections
of machines missing patches. PDQ Deploy has a package with 2 steps. 1st is the monthly rollup. 2nd is a powershell script.
The ps script does a few things like check and install all needed parts like services are set to manual and running,
the PSWindowsUpdate module is installed, and if its a test or dev server I use my spreadsheet and manually add strings to
an array like this:
```
$Patches = @(
    ".*Servicing Stack Update.*",
    "Cumulative Update for Windows Server 2016 for x64-based Systems",
    "Rollup .* .NET Framework",
    "Security Update for Internet Explorer 11",
    "Update for Adobe Flash Player.*",
    ".*Security Update for Adobe Flash Player.*",
    "Update for Microsoft Silverlight.*",
    "Windows Malicious Software Removal Tool.*"
)
```
Then I create 1 string out them...
```
foreach ($Patch in $Patches){
    if ($Patch -eq $Patches[-1]){
        $Updatestr += $Patch
    } else {
        $Updatestr += "$Patch|"
    }
}
```
Then I use that string to filter the updates.
```
$Updates = Get-WindowsUpdate -MicrosoftUpdate -Title $UpdateStr -NotTitle "Preview" -AcceptAll -Install -IgnoreReboot -Verbose 4>> $Log
```
I also take that info and dump it to a log file and a json file. Then I have another script that combines all the updates
that were installed on my test or dev servers. This also creates a log and a json file. (By the way I'm cleaning up these files as
I go along) Now I'm ready to have the devs test their applications and then I do the same for the production servers except
I use the combined json file created from the test and dev servers as a string of approved updates for the Prod servers.

Yes, I know there are better, probably easier ways of doing this, but this is all powershell! So we'll see how long this
lasts!