---
layout: post
title: This Week In Powershell
---

I had an interesting one this week. A vendor for our main administration system is moving from just giving us .sql
scripts and letting us manually run through them to developing a batch file that will run each script in the correct order.
This is a good improvement except that we didn't have this for the past few years so we had developed our own procedure
internally.

So the batch script basically takes the parameters passed to it and uses them to deploy the SQL scripts. Naturally I
want to take this batch file and just incorporate it into my existing powershell script that currently does the SQL script
deployment but nothing is ever easy, right?

I tried running

```
$Arguments = "$Server $DBName Silent"
$Result = Start-Process -FilePath "$($BatchScript.FullName)" -ArgumentList "$Arguments" -WorkingDirectory "$($BatchScript.DirectoryName)" -Wait -PassThru

```

and it failed spectacularly. Luckily I was getting log files created by the batch script. Those told me that it was
an authentication error. So I look and the batch script is trying to use windows auth with the system account. That's
not good. So starting the process with specific credentials wouldn't be an issue except that we would like some sort of
service account to be doing this task and we don't have any domain service accounts with access to the database. So
SQL authentication right? Right.

So I modify the batch script to accept a user name and password and pass that to SQLCMD. Now the fun part, I have to pass
the user name and pass to the batch file. So I do that but I'm still getting the same errors. I add a few echos in and
now I can see that the password isn't correct. I check it and the ps script is sending it correctly but the batch isnt
receiving it correctly. I start googling and find that the batch is using setlocal enabledelayedexpansion. My password has
an ! in it. Great so the batch script is interpreting my ! incorrectly. So here's how I had to fix it. Your milage may
vary but maybe it will help someone out there since I didn't see an answer like this anywhere I was looking!

```
$EditedPass = $Password -replace "!","^^^!"
$Arguments = "$Server $DBName Silent $UserName `"$EditedPass`""
$Result = Start-Process -FilePath "$($BatchScript.FullName)" -ArgumentList "$Arguments" -WorkingDirectory "$($BatchScript.DirectoryName)" -Wait -PassThru
```

If you have a better way of doing this please shoot me an email!
