---
layout: post
title: This Week In Powershell
---

## This Week In Powershell

### Pester
This week was more Pester fun. I realized that Pester really only looks to make sure that each command is tested.
Unfortunately one of my helper functions is basically just a switch, creating a hashtable and output that hashtable
as a psobject. So if I make changes to the function then they wont be caught by just looking at code coverage.
So I'm approaching this from 2 ways. 

First, if you read [last week's post](https://b1grif.github.io/TWIP/), you already know that I'm using JSON files 
to store config data. So what I do is something like this to get all JSON files into 1 psobject:

```
Attributes = New-Object -TypeName PSObject
Get-ChildItem -Path ".\RawInput" -Filter "*.json" |
    ForEach-Object {
        $Property = $_.BaseName
        $Value = Get-Content $_.FullName | ConvertFrom-Json
        $Attributes | Add-Member -MemberType NoteProperty -Name $Property -Value $Value
    }
```

Then for my pester test I'm doing this:

```
It "Testing number of json configs VS Number of Get-ServerEnv properties - <Server>" -TestCases $TestCases {
    param ($Server)
    $JSONCount = ($Attributes.PSObject.Properties | Where-Object {$_.MemberType -eq 'NoteProperty'}).Count
    $ServerEnv = Get-ServerEnv -AppServer $Server
    $ServerEnvCount = ($ServerEnv.PSObject.Properties | Where-Object {$_.MemberType -eq 'NoteProperty'}).Count
    $JSONCount | Should Be $ServerEnvCount
}
```
This is getting $JSONCount which is just me counting each noteproperty on my psobject which corresponds to each JSON
file. $ServerEnv is my function that is just a switch on the param appserver. I'm running each of my app servers 
through this test because they each have slightly different config data. Then I get the $ServerEnvCount which is the 
count of each noteproperty that I get from my function. Then I compare the two counts and make sure they match.

Second, I realized that if I'm using my script from [last week](https://b1grif.github.io/TWIP/) to create my JSON files
then they should always be equal and never throw an error. So I started thinking about another way to test and make 
sure that I was doing a good test each time I make a change like add a noteproperty to my Get-ServerEnv.ps1 script.

Here is what I came up with:

```
It "Testing number of tests VS Number of Get-ServerEnv properties - <Server>" -TestCases $TestCases {
    param ($Server)
    $AllTests = (Get-Content "Get-ServerEnv.Tests.ps1" | Select-String "It " ) | Measure-Object
    $TestCount = $AllTests.Count - 5
    $ServerEnv = Get-ServerEnv -AppServer $Server
    $ServerEnvCount = ($ServerEnv.PSObject.Properties | Where-Object {$_.MemberType -eq 'NoteProperty'}).Count
    $TestCount | Should Be $ServerEnvCount
}
```
I am counting the number of tests in my Get-ServerEnv.tests.ps1 file then I subtract out 5 instances because the string
"IT " occurs 5 times that are either descriptions of tests or are additional tests about the data. Then I get the 
$ServerEnv which is the data returned from my function. I count the noteproperties and then compare them. 

This ends up telling me that I have 72 noteproperties coming from my function and I have the same number of tests in 
my Get-ServerEnv.Tests.ps1 file.

Hopefully this can help you guys with some Pester tests!
