---
layout: post
title: This Week In Powershell
---

## Intro to This Week In Powershell
This is the first post in a series I'm going to try to do each week. I'll focus on something that was strange or 
took some time for me to think through.

## This Week In Powershell

### Pester
This week I was working a little with Pester as well as trying to find the best way to create property files for 
our admin system. The Pester testing is something completely new to me and I'm still struggling with it conceptually.
I have 11 functions to build the application. One of these functions returns an object with all the config values for
the application. Up until this week, I was manually getting each config value and putting it in a json file.
Then I pull that json file into my Pester test and test the function against each server and then make sure the
results match the json file.

This was way too time consuming. This week I created a new function to use the first function and create the json
files for me. Then I changed the Pester file to pull in each of the json files into a psobject with this code:

```
$Attributes = New-Object -TypeName PSObject
    Get-ChildItem -Path ".\RawInput" -Filter "*.json" |
        ForEach-Object {
            $Property = $_.BaseName
            $Value = Get-Content $_.FullName | ConvertFrom-Json
            $Attributes | Add-Member -MemberType NoteProperty -Name $Property -Value $Value
        }
```

### Where to store static text?

The next struggle is with this same project. The admin system application uses .properties files for configuration
variables. The struggle I'm having is that large chunks of these files are completely static so I'm not sure if I
should keep the large chunks of text in my .ps1 files or keep external and use Get-Content to pull them in. Currently
the files are external and I'm using Get-Content to pull that text in then build the .properties files from the 
static text plus the variables.

If you have a better way of doing this please shoot me an email!
